It’s exam week!

You will have a total of 80 multiple choice questions spanning chapters 1 through 4. Each will be worth 1 point. I will divide the multiple choice part of the exam into 2 parts. First part will be chapters 1 and 2 (40 questions with 60 minutes to complete) and second part chapters 3 and 4.(40 questions with 60 minutes to complete). The multiple choice part of the exam is in the Mastering Geography system. 

When you take the exam be aware of the time. The exam does not allow you to go back and forth between multiple choice question questions.  In other words once a question comes up you must complete it and submit it. Once the time is up then you cannot answer any more questions. It will grade only the answers you have submitted.

 Be sure to take the exam on a computer with the correct browser.  The exam will open  today at 6:00 a.m. and close on March 7th at 11:00 p.m. Please plan accordingly. (Try and take the exam before the last open day.) If you have problems with the exam make sure you document the problem. Take a screen shot or a picture of the screen with your phone.  Contact me enclosing the picture of the problem. I can reset an exam but I will need for you to have proof of a problem. 

You will also have 2 essay questions (10 pts each for a total of 20 pts.) These question will be taken from the pool of "study questions" I have been indicating in your summary guide for each chapter. This part of the exam is in Beachboard. The 2 questions are in the instructions for the dropbox. The dropbox will be open for 1 week, from today until March 7th  at ll:00 p.m. I have used the dropbox because it allows your answers to be check for originality via the "turn it in" software. So make sure your answers are original/your own.  How I grade essays is based on the rubric. The rubric is a separate file in this module. It would be prudent to take a look at it. 

Sometimes there is confusion about originality of your work. You may of course use the textbook for answering these questions but just copying portions of your textbook is plagiarism even if you do cite the reference. The essays need to be you reinterpretation of the reference. You may use some sentences that are copied, if you use quotes. But if you essay if more than 25% direct quotes then it is seen as not your own. 

If you fail to take the exam in the time allotted you will need a documented reason for taking a make up exam. The exam will be open for an entire week so the reason will have to be extraordinary.